# MODEL1202090003: ubiquitousinactive

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1202090003.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1202090003.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


This model is from the article:  
**A dynamical model of the spindle position checkpoint**   
Ayse Koca Caydasi, Maiko Lohel, Gerd Grünert, Peter Dittrich, Gislene Pereira
& Bashar Ibrahim _Molecular Systems Biology_ 2012; 582
[PMEDID](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/PMEDID) , doi:
[10.1038/msb.2012.15](http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/msb.2012.15)  
**Abstract:**   
The orientation of the mitotic spindle with respect to the polarity axis is
crucial for the accuracy of asymmetric cell division. In budding yeast, a
surveillance mechanism called the spindle position checkpoint (SPOC) prevents
exit from mitosis when the mitotic spindle fails to align along the mother-to-
daughter polarity axis. SPOC arrest relies upon inhibition of the GTPase Tem1
by the GTPase-activating protein (GAP) complex Bfa1–Bub2. Importantly,
reactions signaling mitotic exit take place at yeast centrosomes (named
spindle pole bodies, SPBs) and the GAP complex also promotes SPB localization
of Tem1. Yet, whether the regulation of Tem1 by Bfa1–Bub2 takes place only at
the SPBs remains elusive. Here, we present a quantitative analysis of
Bfa1–Bub2 and Tem1 localization at the SPBs. Based on the measured SPB-bound
protein levels, we introduce a dynamical model of the SPOC that describes the
regulation of Bfa1 and Tem1. Our model suggests that Bfa1 interacts with Tem1
in the cytoplasm as well as at the SPBs to provide efficient Tem1 inhibition.

To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not.

To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Novère N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)


